---
layout: post
comments: true
---

One of my favorite quotes from SICP is the one from Alan J. Perlis in
the Preface: "I think that itâ€™s extraordinarily important that we in
computer science keep fun in computing. When it started out it was an
awful lot of fun."

I would also add that Engineering should be about problem-solving and
building cool shits instead of fake working at a desk for 8 hours.
If I just described how you are currently making a living, I have
nothing against that if someone is willing to pay for you to sit and
give them some perception of productivity.  But what I want to
highlight is that real Engineering work shouldn't be constrained to
that.

I was always being attracted by assignments that were about
implementing cool stuffs even if it seems hard. This could be
perceived as a foolish attitude for a fake worker professional, but
it's what led me to Computer Science at the first place.

Some of the cool things that I built while working were things that
were not specifically assigned to me directly, but I took on the task
and I had fun doing it. I also suggested to do stuff or actually did
it things that sounded cool but leads me into troubles because the
others didn't see it that way.

I recall for example a time I suggested to unit test a system system
against a legacy system while we were porting it into another
technology.  Or automate some task that seems repetitive.  These were
challenging problems that were not specifically requested but it was
challenging and it would have been fun to address them.

One of the best workd I did were also addressing these problems that
were not specifically requested. For example, I implemented a
Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet in Clojure for Bitcoin and Monero
after having troubles making a Rust implementation work on some
colleagues computer architecture.

I know that real work will not be fun all the time, but I find it's
equally important as getting stuff done to keep the fun in the house.
Like in civil engineering, it shouldn't be always fun to lay bricks
and compacting concrete but it's part of the process of building
things. Same is applicable for Software Engineering, sometimes, we
will have to put the work in and implement necessary things to build
things that the customer want or the product needs.  But I think that
Engineers should be allowed to do Engineering.
